.TH iptables-extensions 8 "" "iptables 1.6.2" "iptables 1.6.2"
.SH NAME
iptables-extensions \(em list of extensions in the standard iptables distribution
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBip6tables\fP [\fB\-m\fP \fIname\fP [\fImodule-options\fP...]]
[\fB\-j\fP \fItarget-name\fP [\fItarget-options\fP...]
.PP
\fBiptables\fP [\fB\-m\fP \fIname\fP [\fImodule-options\fP...]]
[\fB\-j\fP \fItarget-name\fP [\fItarget-options\fP...]
.SH MATCH EXTENSIONS
iptables can use extended packet matching modules
with the \fB\-m\fP or \fB\-\-match\fP
options, followed by the matching module name; after these, various
extra command line options become available, depending on the specific
module.  You can specify multiple extended match modules in one line,
and you can use the \fB\-h\fP or \fB\-\-help\fP
options after the module has been specified to receive help specific
to that module.  The extended match modules are evaluated in the order
they are specified in the rule.
.PP
If the \fB\-p\fP or \fB\-\-protocol\fP was specified and if and only if an
unknown option is encountered, iptables will try load a match module of the
same name as the protocol, to try making the option available.
.\" @MATCH@
.SS addrtype
This module matches packets based on their 
.B address type.
Address types are used within the kernel networking stack and categorize
addresses into various groups.  The exact definition of that group depends on the specific layer three protocol.
.PP
The following address types are possible:
.TP
.BI "UNSPEC"
an unspecified address (i.e. 0.0.0.0)
.TP
.BI "UNICAST"
an unicast address
.TP
.BI "LOCAL"
a local address
.TP
.BI "BROADCAST"
a broadcast address
.TP
.BI "ANYCAST"
an anycast packet
.TP
.BI "MULTICAST"
a multicast address
.TP
.BI "BLACKHOLE"
a blackhole address
.TP
.BI "UNREACHABLE"
an unreachable address
.TP
.BI "PROHIBIT"
a prohibited address
.TP
.BI "THROW"
FIXME
.TP
.BI "NAT"
FIXME
.TP
.BI "XRESOLVE"
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-src\-type\fP \fItype\fP
Matches if the source address is of given type
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-dst\-type\fP \fItype\fP
Matches if the destination address is of given type
.TP
.BI "\-\-limit\-iface\-in"
The address type checking can be limited to the interface the packet is coming
in. This option is only valid in the
.BR PREROUTING ,
.B INPUT
and
.B FORWARD
chains. It cannot be specified with the
\fB\-\-limit\-iface\-out\fP
option.
.TP
\fB\-\-limit\-iface\-out\fP
The address type checking can be limited to the interface the packet is going
out. This option is only valid in the
.BR POSTROUTING ,
.B OUTPUT
and
.B FORWARD
chains. It cannot be specified with the
\fB\-\-limit\-iface\-in\fP
option.
.SS ah (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the parameters in Authentication header of IPsec packets.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ahspi\fP \fIspi\fP[\fB:\fP\fIspi\fP]
Matches SPI.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ahlen\fP \fIlength\fP
Total length of this header in octets.
.TP
\fB\-\-ahres\fP
Matches if the reserved field is filled with zero.
.SS ah (IPv4-specific)
This module matches the SPIs in Authentication header of IPsec packets.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ahspi\fP \fIspi\fP[\fB:\fP\fIspi\fP]
.SS conntrack
This module, when combined with connection tracking, allows access to the
connection tracking state for this packet/connection.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctstate\fP \fIstatelist\fP
\fIstatelist\fP is a comma separated list of the connection states to match.
Possible states are listed below.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctproto\fP \fIl4proto\fP
Layer-4 protocol to match (by number or name)
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctorigsrc\fP \fIaddress\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctorigdst\fP \fIaddress\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctreplsrc\fP \fIaddress\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctrepldst\fP \fIaddress\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Match against original/reply source/destination address
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctorigsrcport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctorigdstport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctreplsrcport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctrepldstport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
Match against original/reply source/destination port (TCP/UDP/etc.) or GRE key.
Matching against port ranges is only supported in kernel versions above 2.6.38.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctstatus\fP \fIstatelist\fP
\fIstatuslist\fP is a comma separated list of the connection statuses to match.
Possible statuses are listed below.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-ctexpire\fP \fItime\fP[\fB:\fP\fItime\fP]
Match remaining lifetime in seconds against given value or range of values
(inclusive)
.TP
\fB\-\-ctdir\fP {\fBORIGINAL\fP|\fBREPLY\fP}
Match packets that are flowing in the specified direction. If this flag is not
specified at all, matches packets in both directions.
.PP
States for \fB\-\-ctstate\fP:
.TP
\fBINVALID\fP
The packet is associated with no known connection.
.TP
\fBNEW\fP
The packet has started a new connection or otherwise associated
with a connection which has not seen packets in both directions.
.TP
\fBESTABLISHED\fP
The packet is associated with a connection which has seen packets
in both directions.
.TP
\fBRELATED\fP
The packet is starting a new connection, but is associated with an
existing connection, such as an FTP data transfer or an ICMP error.
.TP
\fBUNTRACKED\fP
The packet is not tracked at all, which happens if you explicitly untrack it
by using \-j CT \-\-notrack in the raw table.
.TP
\fBSNAT\fP
A virtual state, matching if the original source address differs from the reply
destination.
.TP
\fBDNAT\fP
A virtual state, matching if the original destination differs from the reply
source.
.PP
Statuses for \fB\-\-ctstatus\fP:
.TP
\fBNONE\fP
None of the below.
.TP
\fBEXPECTED\fP
This is an expected connection (i.e. a conntrack helper set it up).
.TP
\fBSEEN_REPLY\fP
Conntrack has seen packets in both directions.
.TP
\fBASSURED\fP
Conntrack entry should never be early-expired.
.TP
\fBCONFIRMED\fP
Connection is confirmed: originating packet has left box.
.SS dscp
This module matches the 6 bit DSCP field within the TOS field in the
IP header.  DSCP has superseded TOS within the IETF.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-dscp\fP \fIvalue\fP
Match against a numeric (decimal or hex) value [0-63].
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-dscp\-class\fP \fIclass\fP
Match the DiffServ class. This value may be any of the
BE, EF, AFxx or CSx classes.  It will then be converted
into its according numeric value.
.SS dst (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the parameters in Destination Options header
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-dst\-len\fP \fIlength\fP
Total length of this header in octets.
.TP
\fB\-\-dst\-opts\fP \fItype\fP[\fB:\fP\fIlength\fP][\fB,\fP\fItype\fP[\fB:\fP\fIlength\fP]...]
numeric type of option and the length of the option data in octets.
.SS eui64 (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the EUI-64 part of a stateless autoconfigured IPv6 address.
It compares the EUI-64 derived from the source MAC address in Ethernet frame
with the lower 64 bits of the IPv6 source address. But "Universal/Local"
bit is not compared. This module doesn't match other link layer frame, and
is only valid in the
.BR PREROUTING ,
.BR INPUT
and
.BR FORWARD
chains.
.SS frag (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the parameters in Fragment header.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-fragid\fP \fIid\fP[\fB:\fP\fIid\fP]
Matches the given Identification or range of it.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-fraglen\fP \fIlength\fP
This option cannot be used with kernel version 2.6.10 or later. The length of
Fragment header is static and this option doesn't make sense.
.TP
\fB\-\-fragres\fP
Matches if the reserved fields are filled with zero.
.TP
\fB\-\-fragfirst\fP
Matches on the first fragment.
.TP
\fB\-\-fragmore\fP
Matches if there are more fragments.
.TP
\fB\-\-fraglast\fP
Matches if this is the last fragment.
.SS hbh (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the parameters in Hop-by-Hop Options header
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-hbh\-len\fP \fIlength\fP
Total length of this header in octets.
.TP
\fB\-\-hbh\-opts\fP \fItype\fP[\fB:\fP\fIlength\fP][\fB,\fP\fItype\fP[\fB:\fP\fIlength\fP]...]
numeric type of option and the length of the option data in octets.
.SS hl (IPv6-specific)
This module matches the Hop Limit field in the IPv6 header.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-hl\-eq\fP \fIvalue\fP
Matches if Hop Limit equals \fIvalue\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-hl\-lt\fP \fIvalue\fP
Matches if Hop Limit is less than \fIvalue\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-hl\-gt\fP \fIvalue\fP
Matches if Hop Limit is greater than \fIvalue\fP.
.SS icmp (IPv4-specific)
This extension can be used if `\-\-protocol icmp' is specified. It
provides the following option:
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-icmp\-type\fP {\fItype\fP[\fB/\fP\fIcode\fP]|\fItypename\fP}
This allows specification of the ICMP type, which can be a numeric
ICMP type, type/code pair, or one of the ICMP type names shown by the command
.nf
 iptables \-p icmp \-h
.fi
.SS icmp6 (IPv6-specific)
This extension can be used if `\-\-protocol ipv6\-icmp' or `\-\-protocol icmpv6' is
specified. It provides the following option:
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-icmpv6\-type\fP \fItype\fP[\fB/\fP\fIcode\fP]|\fItypename\fP
This allows specification of the ICMPv6 type, which can be a numeric
ICMPv6
.IR type ,
.IR type
and
.IR code ,
or one of the ICMPv6 type names shown by the command
.nf
 ip6tables \-p ipv6\-icmp \-h
.fi
.SS ipv6header (IPv6-specific)
This module matches IPv6 extension headers and/or upper layer header.
.TP
\fB\-\-soft\fP
Matches if the packet includes \fBany\fP of the headers specified with
\fB\-\-header\fP.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-header\fP \fIheader\fP[\fB,\fP\fIheader\fP...]
Matches the packet which EXACTLY includes all specified headers. The headers
encapsulated with ESP header are out of scope.
Possible \fIheader\fP types can be:
.TP
\fBhop\fP|\fBhop\-by\-hop\fP
Hop-by-Hop Options header
.TP
\fBdst\fP
Destination Options header
.TP
\fBroute\fP
Routing header
.TP
\fBfrag\fP
Fragment header
.TP
\fBauth\fP
Authentication header
.TP
\fBesp\fP
Encapsulating Security Payload header
.TP
\fBnone\fP
No Next header which matches 59 in the 'Next Header field' of IPv6 header or
any IPv6 extension headers
.TP
\fBprot\fP
which matches any upper layer protocol header. A protocol name from
/etc/protocols and numeric value also allowed. The number 255 is equivalent to
\fBprot\fP.
.SS length
This module matches the length of the layer-3 payload (e.g. layer-4 packet)
of a packet against a specific value
or range of values.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-length\fP \fIlength\fP[\fB:\fP\fIlength\fP]
.SS limit
This module matches at a limited rate using a token bucket filter.
A rule using this extension will match until this limit is reached.
It can be used in combination with the
.B LOG
target to give limited logging, for example.
.PP
xt_limit has no negation support - you will have to use \-m hashlimit !
\-\-hashlimit \fIrate\fP in this case whilst omitting \-\-hashlimit\-mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-limit\fP \fIrate\fP[\fB/second\fP|\fB/minute\fP|\fB/hour\fP|\fB/day\fP]
Maximum average matching rate: specified as a number, with an optional
`/second', `/minute', `/hour', or `/day' suffix; the default is
3/hour.
.TP
\fB\-\-limit\-burst\fP \fInumber\fP
Maximum initial number of packets to match: this number gets
recharged by one every time the limit specified above is not reached,
up to this number; the default is 5.
.SS mac
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-mac\-source\fP \fIaddress\fP
Match source MAC address.  It must be of the form XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX.
Note that this only makes sense for packets coming from an Ethernet device
and entering the
.BR PREROUTING ,
.B FORWARD
or
.B INPUT
chains.
.SS mark
This module matches the netfilter mark field associated with a packet
(which can be set using the
.B MARK
target below).
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-mark\fP \fIvalue\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Matches packets with the given unsigned mark value (if a \fImask\fP is
specified, this is logically ANDed with the \fImask\fP before the
comparison).
.SS mh (IPv6-specific)
This extension is loaded if `\-\-protocol ipv6\-mh' or `\-\-protocol mh' is
specified. It provides the following option:
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-mh\-type\fP \fItype\fP[\fB:\fP\fItype\fP]
This allows specification of the Mobility Header(MH) type, which can be
a numeric MH
.IR type ,
.IR type
or one of the MH type names shown by the command
.nf
 ip6tables \-p mh \-h
.fi
.SS owner
This module attempts to match various characteristics of the packet creator,
for locally generated packets. This match is only valid in the OUTPUT and
POSTROUTING chains. Forwarded packets do not have any socket associated with
them. Packets from kernel threads do have a socket, but usually no owner.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-uid\-owner\fP \fIusername\fP
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-uid\-owner\fP \fIuserid\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIuserid\fP]
Matches if the packet socket's file structure (if it has one) is owned by the
given user. You may also specify a numerical UID, or an UID range.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-gid\-owner\fP \fIgroupname\fP
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-gid\-owner\fP \fIgroupid\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIgroupid\fP]
Matches if the packet socket's file structure is owned by the given group.
You may also specify a numerical GID, or a GID range.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-socket\-exists\fP
Matches if the packet is associated with a socket.
.SS policy
This modules matches the policy used by IPsec for handling a packet.
.TP
\fB\-\-dir\fP {\fBin\fP|\fBout\fP}
Used to select whether to match the policy used for decapsulation or the
policy that will be used for encapsulation.
.B in
is valid in the
.B PREROUTING, INPUT and FORWARD
chains,
.B out
is valid in the
.B POSTROUTING, OUTPUT and FORWARD
chains.
.TP
\fB\-\-pol\fP {\fBnone\fP|\fBipsec\fP}
Matches if the packet is subject to IPsec processing. \fB\-\-pol none\fP
cannot be combined with \fB\-\-strict\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fP
Selects whether to match the exact policy or match if any rule of
the policy matches the given policy.
.PP
For each policy element that is to be described, one can use one or more of
the following options. When \fB\-\-strict\fP is in effect, at least one must be
used per element.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-reqid\fP \fIid\fP
Matches the reqid of the policy rule. The reqid can be specified with
.B setkey(8)
using
.B unique:id
as level.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-spi\fP \fIspi\fP
Matches the SPI of the SA.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-proto\fP {\fBah\fP|\fBesp\fP|\fBipcomp\fP}
Matches the encapsulation protocol.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-mode\fP {\fBtunnel\fP|\fBtransport\fP}
Matches the encapsulation mode.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tunnel\-src\fP \fIaddr\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Matches the source end-point address of a tunnel mode SA.
Only valid with \fB\-\-mode tunnel\fP.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tunnel\-dst\fP \fIaddr\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Matches the destination end-point address of a tunnel mode SA.
Only valid with \fB\-\-mode tunnel\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-next\fP
Start the next element in the policy specification. Can only be used with
\fB\-\-strict\fP.
.SS rt (IPv6-specific)
Match on IPv6 routing header
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-rt\-type\fP \fItype\fP
Match the type (numeric).
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-rt\-segsleft\fP \fInum\fP[\fB:\fP\fInum\fP]
Match the `segments left' field (range).
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-rt\-len\fP \fIlength\fP
Match the length of this header.
.TP
\fB\-\-rt\-0\-res\fP
Match the reserved field, too (type=0)
.TP
\fB\-\-rt\-0\-addrs\fP \fIaddr\fP[\fB,\fP\fIaddr\fP...]
Match type=0 addresses (list).
.TP
\fB\-\-rt\-0\-not\-strict\fP
List of type=0 addresses is not a strict list.
.SS state
The "state" extension is a subset of the "conntrack" module.
"state" allows access to the connection tracking state for this packet.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-state\fP \fIstate\fP
Where state is a comma separated list of the connection states to match. Only a
subset of the states unterstood by "conntrack" are recognized: \fBINVALID\fP,
\fBESTABLISHED\fP, \fBNEW\fP, \fBRELATED\fP or \fBUNTRACKED\fP. For their
description, see the "conntrack" heading in this manpage.
.SS tcp
These extensions can be used if `\-\-protocol tcp' is specified. It
provides the following options:
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-source\-port\fP,\fB\-\-sport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
Source port or port range specification. This can either be a service
name or a port number. An inclusive range can also be specified,
using the format \fIfirst\fP\fB:\fP\fIlast\fP.
If the first port is omitted, "0" is assumed; if the last is omitted,
"65535" is assumed.
The flag
\fB\-\-sport\fP
is a convenient alias for this option.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-destination\-port\fP,\fB\-\-dport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
Destination port or port range specification.  The flag
\fB\-\-dport\fP
is a convenient alias for this option.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tcp\-flags\fP \fImask\fP \fIcomp\fP
Match when the TCP flags are as specified.  The first argument \fImask\fP is the
flags which we should examine, written as a comma-separated list, and
the second argument \fIcomp\fP is a comma-separated list of flags which must be
set.  Flags are:
.BR "SYN ACK FIN RST URG PSH ALL NONE" .
Hence the command
.nf
 iptables \-A FORWARD \-p tcp \-\-tcp\-flags SYN,ACK,FIN,RST SYN
.fi
will only match packets with the SYN flag set, and the ACK, FIN and
RST flags unset.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-syn\fP
Only match TCP packets with the SYN bit set and the ACK,RST and FIN bits
cleared.  Such packets are used to request TCP connection initiation;
for example, blocking such packets coming in an interface will prevent
incoming TCP connections, but outgoing TCP connections will be
unaffected.
It is equivalent to \fB\-\-tcp\-flags SYN,RST,ACK,FIN SYN\fP.
If the "!" flag precedes the "\-\-syn", the sense of the
option is inverted.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tcp\-option\fP \fInumber\fP
Match if TCP option set.
.SS time
This matches if the packet arrival time/date is within a given range. All
options are optional, but are ANDed when specified. All times are interpreted
as UTC by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-datestart\fP \fIYYYY\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIMM\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIDD\fP[\fBT\fP\fIhh\fP[\fB:\fP\fImm\fP[\fB:\fP\fIss\fP]]]]]
.TP
\fB\-\-datestop\fP \fIYYYY\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIMM\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIDD\fP[\fBT\fP\fIhh\fP[\fB:\fP\fImm\fP[\fB:\fP\fIss\fP]]]]]
Only match during the given time, which must be in ISO 8601 "T" notation.
The possible time range is 1970-01-01T00:00:00 to 2038-01-19T04:17:07.
.IP
If \-\-datestart or \-\-datestop are not specified, it will default to 1970-01-01
and 2038-01-19, respectively.
.TP
\fB\-\-timestart\fP \fIhh\fP\fB:\fP\fImm\fP[\fB:\fP\fIss\fP]
.TP
\fB\-\-timestop\fP \fIhh\fP\fB:\fP\fImm\fP[\fB:\fP\fIss\fP]
Only match during the given daytime. The possible time range is 00:00:00 to
23:59:59. Leading zeroes are allowed (e.g. "06:03") and correctly interpreted
as base-10.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-monthdays\fP \fIday\fP[\fB,\fP\fIday\fP...]
Only match on the given days of the month. Possible values are \fB1\fP
to \fB31\fP. Note that specifying \fB31\fP will of course not match
on months which do not have a 31st day; the same goes for 28- or 29-day
February.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-weekdays\fP \fIday\fP[\fB,\fP\fIday\fP...]
Only match on the given weekdays. Possible values are \fBMon\fP, \fBTue\fP,
\fBWed\fP, \fBThu\fP, \fBFri\fP, \fBSat\fP, \fBSun\fP, or values from \fB1\fP
to \fB7\fP, respectively. You may also use two-character variants (\fBMo\fP,
\fBTu\fP, etc.).
.TP
\fB\-\-contiguous\fP
When \fB\-\-timestop\fP is smaller than \fB\-\-timestart\fP value, match
this as a single time period instead distinct intervals.  See EXAMPLES.
.TP
\fB\-\-kerneltz\fP
Use the kernel timezone instead of UTC to determine whether a packet meets the
time regulations.
.PP
About kernel timezones: Linux keeps the system time in UTC, and always does so.
On boot, system time is initialized from a referential time source. Where this
time source has no timezone information, such as the x86 CMOS RTC, UTC will be
assumed. If the time source is however not in UTC, userspace should provide the
correct system time and timezone to the kernel once it has the information.
.PP
Local time is a feature on top of the (timezone independent) system time. Each
process has its own idea of local time, specified via the TZ environment
variable. The kernel also has its own timezone offset variable. The TZ
userspace environment variable specifies how the UTC-based system time is
displayed, e.g. when you run date(1), or what you see on your desktop clock.
The TZ string may resolve to different offsets at different dates, which is
what enables the automatic time-jumping in userspace. when DST changes. The
kernel's timezone offset variable is used when it has to convert between
non-UTC sources, such as FAT filesystems, to UTC (since the latter is what the
rest of the system uses).
.PP
The caveat with the kernel timezone is that Linux distributions may ignore to
set the kernel timezone, and instead only set the system time. Even if a
particular distribution does set the timezone at boot, it is usually does not
keep the kernel timezone offset - which is what changes on DST - up to date.
ntpd will not touch the kernel timezone, so running it will not resolve the
issue. As such, one may encounter a timezone that is always +0000, or one that
is wrong half of the time of the year. As such, \fBusing \-\-kerneltz is highly
discouraged.\fP
.PP
EXAMPLES. To match on weekends, use:
.IP
\-m time \-\-weekdays Sa,Su
.PP
Or, to match (once) on a national holiday block:
.IP
\-m time \-\-datestart 2007\-12\-24 \-\-datestop 2007\-12\-27
.PP
Since the stop time is actually inclusive, you would need the following stop
time to not match the first second of the new day:
.IP
\-m time \-\-datestart 2007\-01\-01T17:00 \-\-datestop 2007\-01\-01T23:59:59
.PP
During lunch hour:
.IP
\-m time \-\-timestart 12:30 \-\-timestop 13:30
.PP
The fourth Friday in the month:
.IP
\-m time \-\-weekdays Fr \-\-monthdays 22,23,24,25,26,27,28
.PP
(Note that this exploits a certain mathematical property. It is not possible to
say "fourth Thursday OR fourth Friday" in one rule. It is possible with
multiple rules, though.)
.PP
Matching across days might not do what is expected.  For instance,
.IP
\-m time \-\-weekdays Mo \-\-timestart 23:00  \-\-timestop 01:00
Will match Monday, for one hour from midnight to 1 a.m., and then
again for another hour from 23:00 onwards.  If this is unwanted, e.g. if you
would like 'match for two hours from Montay 23:00 onwards' you need to also specify
the \-\-contiguous option in the example above.
.SS tos
This module matches the 8-bit Type of Service field in the IPv4 header (i.e.
including the "Precedence" bits) or the (also 8-bit) Priority field in the IPv6
header.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tos\fP \fIvalue\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Matches packets with the given TOS mark value. If a mask is specified, it is
logically ANDed with the TOS mark before the comparison.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-tos\fP \fIsymbol\fP
You can specify a symbolic name when using the tos match for IPv4. The list of
recognized TOS names can be obtained by calling iptables with \fB\-m tos \-h\fP.
Note that this implies a mask of 0x3F, i.e. all but the ECN bits.
.SS u32
U32 tests whether quantities of up to 4 bytes extracted from a packet have
specified values. The specification of what to extract is general enough to
find data at given offsets from tcp headers or payloads.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-u32\fP \fItests\fP
The argument amounts to a program in a small language described below.
.IP
tests := location "=" value | tests "&&" location "=" value
.IP
value := range | value "," range
.IP
range := number | number ":" number
.PP
a single number, \fIn\fP, is interpreted the same as \fIn:n\fP. \fIn:m\fP is
interpreted as the range of numbers \fB>=n\fP and \fB<=m\fP.
.IP "" 4
location := number | location operator number
.IP "" 4
operator := "&" | "<<" | ">>" | "@"
.PP
The operators \fB&\fP, \fB<<\fP, \fB>>\fP and \fB&&\fP mean the same as in C.
The \fB=\fP is really a set membership operator and the value syntax describes
a set. The \fB@\fP operator is what allows moving to the next header and is
described further below.
.PP
There are currently some artificial implementation limits on the size of the
tests:
.IP "    *"
no more than 10 of "\fB=\fP" (and 9 "\fB&&\fP"s) in the u32 argument
.IP "    *"
no more than 10 ranges (and 9 commas) per value
.IP "    *"
no more than 10 numbers (and 9 operators) per location
.PP
To describe the meaning of location, imagine the following machine that
interprets it. There are three registers:
.IP
A is of type \fBchar *\fP, initially the address of the IP header
.IP
B and C are unsigned 32 bit integers, initially zero
.PP
The instructions are:
.IP
number B = number;
.IP
C = (*(A+B)<<24) + (*(A+B+1)<<16) + (*(A+B+2)<<8) + *(A+B+3)
.IP
&number C = C & number
.IP
<< number C = C << number
.IP
>> number C = C >> number
.IP
@number A = A + C; then do the instruction number
.PP
Any access of memory outside [skb\->data,skb\->end] causes the match to fail.
Otherwise the result of the computation is the final value of C.
.PP
Whitespace is allowed but not required in the tests. However, the characters
that do occur there are likely to require shell quoting, so it is a good idea
to enclose the arguments in quotes.
.PP
Example:
.IP
match IP packets with total length >= 256
.IP
The IP header contains a total length field in bytes 2-3.
.IP
\-\-u32 "\fB0 & 0xFFFF = 0x100:0xFFFF\fP"
.IP
read bytes 0-3
.IP
AND that with 0xFFFF (giving bytes 2-3), and test whether that is in the range
[0x100:0xFFFF]
.PP
Example: (more realistic, hence more complicated)
.IP
match ICMP packets with icmp type 0
.IP
First test that it is an ICMP packet, true iff byte 9 (protocol) = 1
.IP
\-\-u32 "\fB6 & 0xFF = 1 &&\fP ...
.IP
read bytes 6-9, use \fB&\fP to throw away bytes 6-8 and compare the result to
1. Next test that it is not a fragment. (If so, it might be part of such a
packet but we cannot always tell.) N.B.: This test is generally needed if you
want to match anything beyond the IP header. The last 6 bits of byte 6 and all
of byte 7 are 0 iff this is a complete packet (not a fragment). Alternatively,
you can allow first fragments by only testing the last 5 bits of byte 6.
.IP
 ... \fB4 & 0x3FFF = 0 &&\fP ...
.IP
Last test: the first byte past the IP header (the type) is 0. This is where we
have to use the @syntax. The length of the IP header (IHL) in 32 bit words is
stored in the right half of byte 0 of the IP header itself.
.IP
 ... \fB0 >> 22 & 0x3C @ 0 >> 24 = 0\fP"
.IP
The first 0 means read bytes 0-3, \fB>>22\fP means shift that 22 bits to the
right. Shifting 24 bits would give the first byte, so only 22 bits is four
times that plus a few more bits. \fB&3C\fP then eliminates the two extra bits
on the right and the first four bits of the first byte. For instance, if IHL=5,
then the IP header is 20 (4 x 5) bytes long. In this case, bytes 0-1 are (in
binary) xxxx0101 yyzzzzzz, \fB>>22\fP gives the 10 bit value xxxx0101yy and
\fB&3C\fP gives 010100. \fB@\fP means to use this number as a new offset into
the packet, and read four bytes starting from there. This is the first 4 bytes
of the ICMP payload, of which byte 0 is the ICMP type. Therefore, we simply
shift the value 24 to the right to throw out all but the first byte and compare
the result with 0.
.PP
Example:
.IP
TCP payload bytes 8-12 is any of 1, 2, 5 or 8
.IP
First we test that the packet is a tcp packet (similar to ICMP).
.IP
\-\-u32 "\fB6 & 0xFF = 6 &&\fP ...
.IP
Next, test that it is not a fragment (same as above).
.IP
 ... \fB0 >> 22 & 0x3C @ 12 >> 26 & 0x3C @ 8 = 1,2,5,8\fP"
.IP
\fB0>>22&3C\fP as above computes the number of bytes in the IP header. \fB@\fP
makes this the new offset into the packet, which is the start of the TCP
header. The length of the TCP header (again in 32 bit words) is the left half
of byte 12 of the TCP header. The \fB12>>26&3C\fP computes this length in bytes
(similar to the IP header before). "@" makes this the new offset, which is the
start of the TCP payload. Finally, 8 reads bytes 8-12 of the payload and
\fB=\fP checks whether the result is any of 1, 2, 5 or 8.
.SS udp
These extensions can be used if `\-\-protocol udp' is specified. It
provides the following options:
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-source\-port\fP,\fB\-\-sport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
Source port or port range specification.
See the description of the
\fB\-\-source\-port\fP
option of the TCP extension for details.
.TP
[\fB!\fP] \fB\-\-destination\-port\fP,\fB\-\-dport\fP \fIport\fP[\fB:\fP\fIport\fP]
Destination port or port range specification.
See the description of the
\fB\-\-destination\-port\fP
option of the TCP extension for details.
.SH TARGET EXTENSIONS
iptables can use extended target modules: the following are included
in the standard distribution.
.\" @TARGET@
.SS DNAT
This target is only valid in the
.B nat
table, in the
.B PREROUTING
and
.B OUTPUT
chains, and user-defined chains which are only called from those
chains.  It specifies that the destination address of the packet
should be modified (and all future packets in this connection will
also be mangled), and rules should cease being examined.  It takes the
following options:
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-destination\fP [\fIipaddr\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIipaddr\fP]][\fB:\fP\fIport\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIport\fP]]
which can specify a single new destination IP address, an inclusive
range of IP addresses. Optionally a port range,
if the rule also specifies one of the following protocols:
\fBtcp\fP, \fBudp\fP, \fBdccp\fP or \fBsctp\fP.
If no port range is specified, then the destination port will never be
modified. If no IP address is specified then only the destination port
will be modified.
In Kernels up to 2.6.10 you can add several \-\-to\-destination options. For
those kernels, if you specify more than one destination address, either via an
address range or multiple \-\-to\-destination options, a simple round-robin (one
after another in cycle) load balancing takes place between these addresses.
Later Kernels (>= 2.6.11-rc1) don't have the ability to NAT to multiple ranges
anymore.
.TP
\fB\-\-random\fP
If option
\fB\-\-random\fP
is used then port mapping will be randomized (kernel >= 2.6.22).
.TP
\fB\-\-persistent\fP
Gives a client the same source-/destination-address for each connection.
This supersedes the SAME target. Support for persistent mappings is available
from 2.6.29-rc2.
.TP
IPv6 support available since Linux kernels >= 3.7.
.SS DSCP
This target allows to alter the value of the DSCP bits within the TOS
header of the IPv4 packet.  As this manipulates a packet, it can only
be used in the mangle table.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-dscp\fP \fIvalue\fP
Set the DSCP field to a numerical value (can be decimal or hex)
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-dscp\-class\fP \fIclass\fP
Set the DSCP field to a DiffServ class.
.SS HL (IPv6-specific)
This is used to modify the Hop Limit field in IPv6 header. The Hop Limit field
is similar to what is known as TTL value in IPv4.  Setting or incrementing the
Hop Limit field can potentially be very dangerous, so it should be avoided at
any cost. This target is only valid in
.B mangle
table.
.PP
.B Don't ever set or increment the value on packets that leave your local network!
.TP
\fB\-\-hl\-set\fP \fIvalue\fP
Set the Hop Limit to `value'.
.TP
\fB\-\-hl\-dec\fP \fIvalue\fP
Decrement the Hop Limit `value' times.
.TP
\fB\-\-hl\-inc\fP \fIvalue\fP
Increment the Hop Limit `value' times.
.SS LOG
Turn on kernel logging of matching packets.  When this option is set
for a rule, the Linux kernel will print some information on all
matching packets (like most IP/IPv6 header fields) via the kernel log
(where it can be read with \fIdmesg(1)\fP or read in the syslog).
.PP
This is a "non-terminating target", i.e. rule traversal continues at
the next rule.  So if you want to LOG the packets you refuse, use two
separate rules with the same matching criteria, first using target LOG
then DROP (or REJECT).
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fP \fIlevel\fP
Level of logging, which can be (system-specific) numeric or a mnemonic.
Possible values are (in decreasing order of priority): \fBemerg\fP,
\fBalert\fP, \fBcrit\fP, \fBerror\fP, \fBwarning\fP, \fBnotice\fP, \fBinfo\fP
or \fBdebug\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-prefix\fP \fIprefix\fP
Prefix log messages with the specified prefix; up to 29 letters long,
and useful for distinguishing messages in the logs.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-tcp\-sequence\fP
Log TCP sequence numbers. This is a security risk if the log is
readable by users.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-tcp\-options\fP
Log options from the TCP packet header.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-ip\-options\fP
Log options from the IP/IPv6 packet header.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-uid\fP
Log the userid of the process which generated the packet.
.SS MARK
This target is used to set the Netfilter mark value associated with the packet.
It can, for example, be used in conjunction with routing based on fwmark (needs
iproute2). If you plan on doing so, note that the mark needs to be set in the
PREROUTING chain of the mangle table to affect routing.
The mark field is 32 bits wide.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-xmark\fP \fIvalue\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Zeroes out the bits given by \fImask\fP and XORs \fIvalue\fP into the packet
mark ("nfmark"). If \fImask\fP is omitted, 0xFFFFFFFF is assumed.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-mark\fP \fIvalue\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Zeroes out the bits given by \fImask\fP and ORs \fIvalue\fP into the packet
mark. If \fImask\fP is omitted, 0xFFFFFFFF is assumed.
.PP
The following mnemonics are available:
.TP
\fB\-\-and\-mark\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary AND the nfmark with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-xmark
0/\fP\fIinvbits\fP, where \fIinvbits\fP is the binary negation of \fIbits\fP.)
.TP
\fB\-\-or\-mark\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary OR the nfmark with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-xmark\fP
\fIbits\fP\fB/\fP\fIbits\fP.)
.TP
\fB\-\-xor\-mark\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary XOR the nfmark with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-xmark\fP
\fIbits\fP\fB/0\fP.)
.SS MASQUERADE
This target is only valid in the
.B nat
table, in the
.B POSTROUTING
chain.  It should only be used with dynamically assigned IP (dialup)
connections: if you have a static IP address, you should use the SNAT
target.  Masquerading is equivalent to specifying a mapping to the IP
address of the interface the packet is going out, but also has the
effect that connections are
.I forgotten
when the interface goes down.  This is the correct behavior when the
next dialup is unlikely to have the same interface address (and hence
any established connections are lost anyway).
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-ports\fP \fIport\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIport\fP]
This specifies a range of source ports to use, overriding the default
.B SNAT
source port-selection heuristics (see above).  This is only valid
if the rule also specifies one of the following protocols:
\fBtcp\fP, \fBudp\fP, \fBdccp\fP or \fBsctp\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-random\fP
Randomize source port mapping
If option
\fB\-\-random\fP
is used then port mapping will be randomized (kernel >= 2.6.21).
.TP
\fB\-\-random-fully\fP
Full randomize source port mapping
If option
\fB\-\-random-fully\fP
is used then port mapping will be fully randomized (kernel >= 3.13).
.TP
IPv6 support available since Linux kernels >= 3.7.
.SS NFQUEUE
This target passes the packet to userspace using the
\fBnfnetlink_queue\fP handler.  The packet is put into the queue
identified by its 16-bit queue number.  Userspace can inspect
and modify the packet if desired. Userspace must then drop or
reinject the packet into the kernel.  Please see libnetfilter_queue
for details.
.B
nfnetlink_queue
was added in Linux 2.6.14. The \fBqueue-balance\fP option was added in Linux 2.6.31,
\fBqueue-bypass\fP in 2.6.39.
.TP
\fB\-\-queue\-num\fP \fIvalue\fP
This specifies the QUEUE number to use. Valid queue numbers are 0 to 65535. The default value is 0.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-queue\-balance\fP \fIvalue\fP\fB:\fP\fIvalue\fP
This specifies a range of queues to use. Packets are then balanced across the given queues.
This is useful for multicore systems: start multiple instances of the userspace program on
queues x, x+1, .. x+n and use "\-\-queue\-balance \fIx\fP\fB:\fP\fIx+n\fP".
Packets belonging to the same connection are put into the same nfqueue.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-queue\-bypass\fP
By default, if no userspace program is listening on an NFQUEUE, then all packets that are to be queued
are dropped.  When this option is used, the NFQUEUE rule behaves like ACCEPT instead, and the packet
will move on to the next table.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-queue\-cpu-fanout\fP
Available starting Linux kernel 3.10. When used together with
\fB--queue-balance\fP this will use the CPU ID as an index to map packets to
the queues. The idea is that you can improve performance if there's a queue
per CPU. This requires \fB--queue-balance\fP to be specified.
.SS NOTRACK
This extension disables connection tracking for all packets matching that rule.
It is equivalent with \-j CT \-\-notrack. Like CT, NOTRACK can only be used in
the \fBraw\fP table.
.SS REDIRECT
This target is only valid in the
.B nat
table, in the
.B PREROUTING
and
.B OUTPUT
chains, and user-defined chains which are only called from those
chains.  It redirects the packet to the machine itself by changing the
destination IP to the primary address of the incoming interface
(locally-generated packets are mapped to the localhost address,
127.0.0.1 for IPv4 and ::1 for IPv6).
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-ports\fP \fIport\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIport\fP]
This specifies a destination port or range of ports to use: without
this, the destination port is never altered.  This is only valid
if the rule also specifies one of the following protocols:
\fBtcp\fP, \fBudp\fP, \fBdccp\fP or \fBsctp\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-random\fP
If option
\fB\-\-random\fP
is used then port mapping will be randomized (kernel >= 2.6.22).
.TP
IPv6 support available starting Linux kernels >= 3.7.
.SS REJECT (IPv6-specific)
This is used to send back an error packet in response to the matched
packet: otherwise it is equivalent to 
.B DROP
so it is a terminating TARGET, ending rule traversal.
This target is only valid in the
.BR INPUT ,
.B FORWARD
and
.B OUTPUT
chains, and user-defined chains which are only called from those
chains.  The following option controls the nature of the error packet
returned:
.TP
\fB\-\-reject\-with\fP \fItype\fP
The type given can be
\fBicmp6\-no\-route\fP,
\fBno\-route\fP,
\fBicmp6\-adm\-prohibited\fP,
\fBadm\-prohibited\fP,
\fBicmp6\-addr\-unreachable\fP,
\fBaddr\-unreach\fP, or
\fBicmp6\-port\-unreachable\fP,
which return the appropriate ICMPv6 error message (\fBicmp6\-port\-unreachable\fP is
the default). Finally, the option
\fBtcp\-reset\fP
can be used on rules which only match the TCP protocol: this causes a
TCP RST packet to be sent back.  This is mainly useful for blocking 
.I ident
(113/tcp) probes which frequently occur when sending mail to broken mail
hosts (which won't accept your mail otherwise).
\fBtcp\-reset\fP
can only be used with kernel versions 2.6.14 or later.
.SS REJECT (IPv4-specific)
This is used to send back an error packet in response to the matched
packet: otherwise it is equivalent to
.B DROP
so it is a terminating TARGET, ending rule traversal.
This target is only valid in the
.BR INPUT ,
.B FORWARD
and
.B OUTPUT
chains, and user-defined chains which are only called from those
chains.  The following option controls the nature of the error packet
returned:
.TP
\fB\-\-reject\-with\fP \fItype\fP
The type given can be
\fBicmp\-net\-unreachable\fP,
\fBicmp\-host\-unreachable\fP,
\fBicmp\-port\-unreachable\fP,
\fBicmp\-proto\-unreachable\fP,
\fBicmp\-net\-prohibited\fP,
\fBicmp\-host\-prohibited\fP, or
\fBicmp\-admin\-prohibited\fP (*),
which return the appropriate ICMP error message (\fBicmp\-port\-unreachable\fP is
the default).  The option
\fBtcp\-reset\fP
can be used on rules which only match the TCP protocol: this causes a
TCP RST packet to be sent back.  This is mainly useful for blocking 
.I ident
(113/tcp) probes which frequently occur when sending mail to broken mail
hosts (which won't accept your mail otherwise).
.IP
(*) Using icmp\-admin\-prohibited with kernels that do not support it will result in a plain DROP instead of REJECT
.SS SNAT
This target is only valid in the
.B nat
table, in the
.B POSTROUTING
and
.B INPUT
chains, and user-defined chains which are only called from those
chains.  It specifies that the source address of the packet should be
modified (and all future packets in this connection will also be
mangled), and rules should cease being examined.  It takes the
following options:
.TP
\fB\-\-to\-source\fP [\fIipaddr\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIipaddr\fP]][\fB:\fP\fIport\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIport\fP]]
which can specify a single new source IP address, an inclusive range
of IP addresses. Optionally a port range,
if the rule also specifies one of the following protocols:
\fBtcp\fP, \fBudp\fP, \fBdccp\fP or \fBsctp\fP.
If no port range is specified, then source ports below 512 will be
mapped to other ports below 512: those between 512 and 1023 inclusive
will be mapped to ports below 1024, and other ports will be mapped to
1024 or above. Where possible, no port alteration will occur.
In Kernels up to 2.6.10, you can add several \-\-to\-source options. For those
kernels, if you specify more than one source address, either via an address
range or multiple \-\-to\-source options, a simple round-robin (one after another
in cycle) takes place between these addresses.
Later Kernels (>= 2.6.11-rc1) don't have the ability to NAT to multiple ranges
anymore.
.TP
\fB\-\-random\fP
If option
\fB\-\-random\fP
is used then port mapping will be randomized through a hash-based algorithm (kernel >= 2.6.21).
.TP
\fB\-\-random-fully\fP
If option
\fB\-\-random-fully\fP
is used then port mapping will be fully randomized through a PRNG (kernel >= 3.14).
.TP
\fB\-\-persistent\fP
Gives a client the same source-/destination-address for each connection.
This supersedes the SAME target. Support for persistent mappings is available
from 2.6.29-rc2.
.PP
Kernels prior to 2.6.36-rc1 don't have the ability to
.B SNAT
in the
.B INPUT
chain.
.TP
IPv6 support available since Linux kernels >= 3.7.
.SS TCPMSS
This target allows to alter the MSS value of TCP SYN packets, to control
the maximum size for that connection (usually limiting it to your
outgoing interface's MTU minus 40 for IPv4 or 60 for IPv6, respectively).
Of course, it can only be used
in conjunction with
\fB\-p tcp\fP.
.PP
This target is used to overcome criminally braindead ISPs or servers
which block "ICMP Fragmentation Needed" or "ICMPv6 Packet Too Big"
packets.  The symptoms of this
problem are that everything works fine from your Linux
firewall/router, but machines behind it can never exchange large
packets:
.IP 1. 4
Web browsers connect, then hang with no data received.
.IP 2. 4
Small mail works fine, but large emails hang.
.IP 3. 4
ssh works fine, but scp hangs after initial handshaking.
.PP
Workaround: activate this option and add a rule to your firewall
configuration like:
.IP
 iptables \-t mangle \-A FORWARD \-p tcp \-\-tcp\-flags SYN,RST SYN
             \-j TCPMSS \-\-clamp\-mss\-to\-pmtu
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-mss\fP \fIvalue\fP
Explicitly sets MSS option to specified value. If the MSS of the packet is
already lower than \fIvalue\fP, it will \fBnot\fP be increased (from Linux
2.6.25 onwards) to avoid more problems with hosts relying on a proper MSS.
.TP
\fB\-\-clamp\-mss\-to\-pmtu\fP
Automatically clamp MSS value to (path_MTU \- 40 for IPv4; \-60 for IPv6).
This may not function as desired where asymmetric routes with differing
path MTU exist \(em the kernel uses the path MTU which it would use to send
packets from itself to the source and destination IP addresses. Prior to
Linux 2.6.25, only the path MTU to the destination IP address was
considered by this option; subsequent kernels also consider the path MTU
to the source IP address.
.PP
These options are mutually exclusive.
.SS TOS
This module sets the Type of Service field in the IPv4 header (including the
"precedence" bits) or the Priority field in the IPv6 header. Note that TOS
shares the same bits as DSCP and ECN. The TOS target is only valid in the
\fBmangle\fP table.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-tos\fP \fIvalue\fP[\fB/\fP\fImask\fP]
Zeroes out the bits given by \fImask\fP (see NOTE below) and XORs \fIvalue\fP
into the TOS/Priority field. If \fImask\fP is omitted, 0xFF is assumed.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-tos\fP \fIsymbol\fP
You can specify a symbolic name when using the TOS target for IPv4. It implies
a mask of 0xFF (see NOTE below). The list of recognized TOS names can be
obtained by calling iptables with \fB\-j TOS \-h\fP.
.PP
The following mnemonics are available:
.TP
\fB\-\-and\-tos\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary AND the TOS value with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-tos
0/\fP\fIinvbits\fP, where \fIinvbits\fP is the binary negation of \fIbits\fP.
See NOTE below.)
.TP
\fB\-\-or\-tos\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary OR the TOS value with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-tos\fP
\fIbits\fP\fB/\fP\fIbits\fP. See NOTE below.)
.TP
\fB\-\-xor\-tos\fP \fIbits\fP
Binary XOR the TOS value with \fIbits\fP. (Mnemonic for \fB\-\-set\-tos\fP
\fIbits\fP\fB/0\fP. See NOTE below.)
.PP
NOTE: In Linux kernels up to and including 2.6.38, with the exception of
longterm releases 2.6.32 (>=.42), 2.6.33 (>=.15), and 2.6.35 (>=.14), there is
a bug whereby IPv6 TOS mangling does not behave as documented and differs from
the IPv4 version. The TOS mask indicates the bits one wants to zero out, so it
needs to be inverted before applying it to the original TOS field. However, the
aformentioned kernels forgo the inversion which breaks --set-tos and its
mnemonics.
